Mutation markdown docs (#1378)
vtex/faststore: apps/docs/docs/reference/api/mutations/cart.mdx

---
hide_table_of_contents: true
sidebar_position: 1
---

import PropsComponent from "@site/src/components/PropsComponent/PropsComponent";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# validateCart

> Use this mutation for all shopping cart operations. It checks for changes between the cart presented in the UI and the cart stored in the ecommerce platform. If changes are detected, it updates the cart stored on the platform and then returns it. Otherwise, it returns `null`.

Reviewer: - _"Use this mutation for all shopping cart operations."_: Pode gerar confusão sobre o que seriam "todas as shopping cart operations".
- _changes - differences_: questão mais semântica. ele verifica diferenças e não "mudanças"
-  _it - the adjusted data_: como o parágrafo é um pouco longo, o uso do pronome aqui acaba dificultando a leitura de quem está só lendo rápido.

<div className="grid grid-cols-2 gap-20 pt-5">

<div>

## Usage

### Arguments

<PropsComponent
      name="cart"

>       type="<code>IStoreCart</code>!"

Reviewer: Nessas partes não precisa `<code>` pq ele já renderiza o `type` de um jeito específico 🙈

>       description="Shopping cart that should be validated, which is <code>IStoreOrder</code>, containing <code>orderNumber</code> and <code>acceptedOffer</code>."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      description="Shopping cart to be validated (<code>IStoreCart</code> with <code>orderNumber</code> and <code>acceptedOffer</code>)"
```

      required="true"
    />

<PropsComponent
      name="orderNumber"
      type="String!"
      description="ID of the order in the ecommerce platform."
      required="true"
    />

<PropsComponent
      name="acceptedOffer"
      type="[<code>IStoreOffer</code>!]"

>       description="Array of offers (<code>IStoreOffer</code>) that are in the front-end cart."

Reviewer: Acho melhor padronizar (front-end ou UI) para falar desse carrinho. Na introdução usamos UI.

      required="true"
    />

### Fields

Below you can see a list of fields that can be returned by the `validateCart` mutation. Click on the links to learn more details about each field.

<ul>
  <li><code>validateCart</code>: <a href="/reference/api/objects#storecart">StoreCart</a>
  <ul>
    <li><code>order</code>: <a href="/reference/api/objects#storeorder">StoreOrder</a>!
    <ul>
      <li><code>orderNumber</code>: <a href="reference/api/scalars#string">String</a>!</li>
      <li><code>acceptedOffer</code>: [<a href="/reference/api/objects#storeoffer">StoreOffer</a>!]!
      <ul>

>         <li>Offer information. check <a href="/reference/api/objects#storeoffer">StoreOffer</a> to see all possible fields.</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <li>Offer information. Check <a href="/reference/api/objects#storeoffer">StoreOffer</a> to see all possible fields.</li>
```

      </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
    </li>
    <li><code>messages</code>: [<a href="/reference/api/objects#storecartmessage">StoreCartMessage</a>!]!
    <ul>
      <li><code>text</code>: <a href="/reference/api/scalars#string">String</a>!</li>
      <li><code>status</code>: <a href="/reference/api/enums#storestatus">StoreStatus</a>!</li>
    </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
  </li>
</ul>

</div>
<div>

### Mutation structure

```graphql
mutation {
  validateCart (
    cart: {
      order: {
        orderNumber: # String!,
        acceptedOffer: [
          {
            # IStoreOffer fields
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  )
  {
    order {
      orderNumber: # String!,
      acceptedOffer: [
        {
          # StoreOffer fields
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

</div>
</div>

## Shopping cart flow

> When you use `validateCart` for the first interaction of a given user (e.g. adding the first product), you should send an empty `orderNumber` (`""`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use `validateCart` for the first interaction of a given user (e.g., adding the first product), you should send an empty `orderNumber` (`""`).
```

            "image": [
              {
                "url": "https://storeframework.vtexassets.com/arquivos/ids/190901/unsplash-headphone.jpg?v=637800115948430000",
                "alternateName": "aedleheadphone"
              }
            ],
            "name": "Leather"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="response" label="Response" default>

```json
{
  "data": {
    "validateCart": {
      "order": {
        "orderNumber": "96fbf6fba3094a918c1f1552ca68f008",
        "acceptedOffer": [
          {
            "price": 130,
            "quantity": 1,
            "seller": {
              "identifier": "1"
            },
            "itemOffered": {
              "name": "Leather",
              "sku": "99988211",
              "description": "Aedle VK-1 L Headphone",
              "image": [
                {
                  "url": "https://storeframework.vtexassets.com/arquivos/ids/190901/unsplash-headphone.jpg?v=637800115948430000",
                  "alternateName": "aedleheadphone"
                }
              ]
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      "messages": []
    }
  }
}
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

> - Removing item from the cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Removing an item from the cart.
```
